YugabyteDB Managed Integration (#2118)
DataDog/integrations-extras: yugabytedb_managed/README.md

# YugabyteDB Managed

## Overview

[YugabyteDB][1] is a cloud-native, distributed database that is API compatible with PostgreSQL.

[YugabyteDB Managed][2] is YugabyteDB's fully-managed Database-as-a-service (DBaaS). With this integration, you can send your cluster metrics to Datadog for visibility into the health and performance of your YugabyteDB Managed clusters. This integration comes with an out-of-the-box dashboard to provide visibility into all the most important metrics needed to monitor the health and performance of a YugabyteDB Managed cluster such as:
- Node resource usage (disk, memory, CPU, networking, and more).
- Read/write operation throughput and latencies (both YSQL and YCQL).
- Advanced Master and Tablet Server telemetry (for example, internal RPC throughput/latencies and WAL read/write throughput).

## Setup

> <div class="alert alert-warning">This feature is not available for <a href="https://docs.yugabyte.com/preview/yugabyte-cloud/cloud-basics/create-clusters/create-clusters-free/">Sandbox Clusters</a>.</div>

Reviewer: Just as a heads up, this will not render on the integration tile in-app, it will only render in the documentation page. If you'd like it to render in-app, you'll need to remove the HTML bits and just add it as plain markdown.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**Note**: This feature is not available for [Sandbox Clusters][X].
```
[X]: https://docs.yugabyte.com/preview/yugabyte-cloud/cloud-basics/create-clusters/create-clusters-free/

@daniel-yb that's on me, I was only thinking of the documentation!

Author: All good! 😄

> For more information on setup, see the [YugabyteDB documentation][3]

Reviewer 2: This one's my fault, forgot the punctuation.
```suggestion
For more information on setup, see the [YugabyteDB documentation][3].
```

> For more information on setup, see the [YugabyteDB documentation][3].

Reviewer: I'd recommend moving this to the bottom of the installation section

### Installation

To enable the YugabyteDB Managed integration with Datadog:

#### Create a configuration
1. In YugabyteDB Managed, navigate to the **Integrations > Metrics** tab.
2. Click **Create Export Configuration** or **Add Export Configuration**.
3. Select the **Datadog** provider.
4. Fill in the **API key** and **Site** fields with the corresponding values. For more information, see the [Datadog API and Application Keys][4] and [Datadog Site URL][5] documentation.
5. Click **Test Configuration** to validate the configuration.
6. Click **Create Configuration**.

#### Associate a configuration to a cluster
1. In YugabyteDB Managed, navigate to the **Integrations > Metrics** tab.
2. Find your cluster in the **Export Metrics by Cluster** table.
3. Select the desired configuration from the **Export Configuration** dropdown menu.

> 4. Wait for the **Export Status** to show `Active`. <br> **Note**: Your cluster cannot associate a configuration when paused or when another operation in progress.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Wait for the **Export Status** to show `Active`.*

*Note**: Your cluster cannot associate a configuration when paused or when another operation in progress.
```

## Uninstallation

To disable metrics being exported to Datadog:
1. In YugabyteDB Managed, navigate to the **Integrations > Metrics** tab.
2. Find your cluster in the **Export Metrics by Cluster** table.
3. Open the dropdown for your cluster under the **Export Configuration** dropdown and select `None`.

> 4. Wait for the **Export Status** to show `-`. <br> **Note**: Your cluster cannot associate a configuration when paused or when another operation in progress.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Wait for the **Export Status** to show `-`. 

**Note**: Your cluster cannot associate a configuration when paused or when another operation in progress.
```

# YugabyteDB Managed

## Overview

> The [YugabyteDB Managed][1] integration with Datadog provides users with the ability to export metrics from their YugabyteDB Managed clusters into Datadog to monitor and alert on.

Reviewer 3: The overview should include:

1. What does your product do in 1-2 sentences? 
2. What will customers get from this integration, and why is it valuable to them?
3. What types of data will your integration send in or pull out, and what's the value of that data?

Author: updated.

3. Choose the **Datadog** provider.
4. Fill in the **API key** and **Site** fields with the corresponding values.
   - The **API key** is associated with your Datadog organization. If you don't have an API key to use with your YugabyteDB Managed cluster, you need to create one in your [Datadog Organization Settings][2]. For further instructions, see the [Datadog documentation][3].
   - Your **Site** corresponds to your Datadog Site URL. For more details, see the [Datadog documentation][4].
5. You can validate the provided configuration by clicking the **Test Configuration** button before selecting **Create Configuration**.

#### Associate a configuration to a cluster
1. Within YugabyteDB Managed, go to the **Metrics** tab under the **Integrations** page from the navigation panel on the left side of the page.
2. Find your cluster in the **Export Metrics by Cluster** table.
3. Open the dropdown for your cluster under the **Export Configuration** dropdown and select the desired configuration.
4. Wait for the **Export Status** to show `Active`.
   - **Note:** Your cluster cannot be paused or have another operation in progress when associating a configuration.

### Configuration

> Open your Datadog dashboard list and select the `YugabyteDB Managed Overview` dashboard. This integration-bundled dashboard contains pre-built graphs that provide monitoring visibility for your YugabyteDB Managed clusters.

Reviewer 3: You can include in the overview that this integration comes with an out-of-the-box dashboard to provide visibility into the YugabyteDB Managed clusters

Author: updated.

# YugabyteDB Managed

## Overview

[YugabyteDB][1] is a cloud-native, distributed database that is API compatible with PostgreSQL.

[YugabyteDB Managed][2] is YugabyteDB's fully-managed Database-as-a-service (DBaaS). Install YugabyteDB's integration to export metrics from a cluster into Datadog. The integration comes with an out-of-the-box dashboard to provide visibility into all the most important metrics needed to monitor the health and performance of a YugabyteDB Managed cluster such as:
- Node resource usage (disk, memory, CPU, networking, and more).
- Read/write operation throughput and latencies (both YSQL and YCQL).

> - Advanced Master and Tablet Server telemetry (for example, internal RPC throughput/latencies and WAL size).

Author: Done.

## Setup
<div class="alert alert-warning">This feature is not available for <a href="https://docs.yugabyte.com/preview/yugabyte-cloud/cloud-basics/create-clusters/create-clusters-free/">Sandbox Clusters</a>.</div>

> <div class="alert alert-warning">For more information on setup, see the <a href="https://docs.yugabyte.com/preview/yugabyte-cloud/cloud-monitor/metrics-export/#datadog">YugabyteDB documentation</a>.</div>

Reviewer 2: I would leave this as regular text, this doesn't limit customer ability to use this integration. Add this link to the bottom of the page https://docs.yugabyte.com/preview/yugabyte-cloud/cloud-monitor/metrics-export/#datadog
```suggestion
For more information on setup, see the [YugabyteDB documentation][x]
```

### Installation

To enable the YugabyteDB Managed integration with Datadog:

#### Create a configuration
1. In YugabyteDB Managed, navigate to the **Integrations > Metrics** tab.
2. Click **Create Export Configuration** or **Add Export Configuration**.
3. Select the **Datadog** provider.

> 4. Fill in the **API key** and **Site** fields with the corresponding values.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
4. Fill in the **API key** and **Site** fields with the corresponding values. For more information, see the [Datadog API and Application Keys][3] and [Datadog Site URL][4] documentation.
```

> For more information, see the [Datadog API and Application Keys][3] documentation.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

>    - Your **Site** corresponds to your [Datadog Site URL][4].

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

- Read/write operation throughput and latencies (both YSQL and YCQL).
- Advanced Master and Tablet Server telemetry (for example, internal RPC throughput/latencies and WAL read/write throughput).

## Setup
**Note**: This feature is not available for [Sandbox Clusters][3].

### Installation

To enable the YugabyteDB Managed integration with Datadog:

#### Create a configuration
1. In YugabyteDB Managed, navigate to the **Integrations > Metrics** tab.
2. Click **Create Export Configuration** or **Add Export Configuration**.
3. Select the **Datadog** provider.
4. Fill in the **API key** and **Site** fields with the corresponding values. For more information, see the [Datadog API and Application Keys][5] and [Datadog Site URL][6] documentation.
5. Click **Test Configuration** to validate the configuration.
6. Click **Create Configuration**.

#### Associate a configuration to a cluster
1. In YugabyteDB Managed, navigate to the **Integrations > Metrics** tab.
2. Find your cluster in the **Export Metrics by Cluster** table.
3. Select the desired configuration from the **Export Configuration** dropdown menu.
4. Wait for the **Export Status** to show `Active`.

> **Note**: Your cluster cannot associate a configuration when paused or when another operation in progress.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Note**: Your cluster cannot associate a configuration when paused or when another operation is in progress.
```

For more information on setup, see the [YugabyteDB documentation][4].

## Uninstallation

To disable metrics being exported to Datadog:
1. In YugabyteDB Managed, navigate to the **Integrations > Metrics** tab.
2. Find your cluster in the **Export Metrics by Cluster** table.
3. Open the dropdown for your cluster under the **Export Configuration** dropdown and select `None`.
4. Wait for the **Export Status** to show `-`.

> **Note**: Your cluster cannot associate a configuration when paused or when another operation in progress.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Note**: Your cluster cannot associate a configuration when paused or when another operation is in progress.
```

3. Choose the **Datadog** provider.
4. Fill in the **API key** and **Site** fields with the corresponding values.
   - The **API key** is associated with your Datadog organization. If you don't have an API key to use with your YugabyteDB Managed cluster, you need to create one in your [Datadog Organization Settings][2]. For further instructions, see the [Datadog documentation][3].
   - Your **Site** corresponds to your Datadog Site URL. For more details, see the [Datadog documentation][4].
5. You can validate the provided configuration by clicking the **Test Configuration** button before selecting **Create Configuration**.

#### Associate a configuration to a cluster
1. Within YugabyteDB Managed, go to the **Metrics** tab under the **Integrations** page from the navigation panel on the left side of the page.
2. Find your cluster in the **Export Metrics by Cluster** table.
3. Open the dropdown for your cluster under the **Export Configuration** dropdown and select the desired configuration.
4. Wait for the **Export Status** to show `Active`.
   - **Note:** Your cluster cannot be paused or have another operation in progress when associating a configuration.

### Configuration

> Open your Datadog dashboard list and select the `YugabyteDB Managed Overview` dashboard to start viewing telemetry.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In the Datadog dashboard list search for and select the `YugabyteDB Managed Overview` dashboard to view your telemetry.
```

## Uninstallation

To disable metrics being exported to Datadog:

> 1. Within YugabyteDB Managed, go to the **Metrics** tab under the **Integrations** page from the navigation panel on the left side of the page.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. In YugabyteDB Managed, navigate to the **Integrations > Metrics** tab.
```

2. Find your cluster in the **Export Metrics by Cluster** table.
3. Open the dropdown for your cluster under the **Export Configuration** dropdown and select `None`.

> 4. Wait for the **Export Status** to show `-`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
4. Wait for the **Export Status** to show `-`. <br> **Note**: Your cluster cannot associate a configuration when paused or when another operation in progress.
```

>    - **Note:** Your cluster cannot be paused or have another operation in progress when removing a configuration.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

## Data Collected

### Metrics

> See [metadata.csv][7] for a list of metrics provided by this integration.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
See [metadata.csv][6] for a list of metrics provided by this integration.
```

### Service Checks

YugabyteDB Managed does not include any service checks.

### Events

YugabyteDB Managed does not include any events.

## Support

> Need help? Contact [YugabyteDB support][8].

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Need help? Contact [YugabyteDB support][7].
```

> [1]: https://www.yugabyte.com/managed/

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[1]: https://yugabyte.com/
```

> [2]: https://app.datadoghq.com/organization-settings/api-keys

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[2]: https://www.yugabyte.com/managed/
```

> [3]: https://docs.datadoghq.com/account_management/api-app-keys/#add-an-api-key-or-client-token

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[3]: https://docs.yugabyte.com/preview/yugabyte-cloud/cloud-monitor/metrics-export/#datadog
```

> [4]: https://docs.datadoghq.com/getting_started/site/

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[4]: https://docs.datadoghq.com/account_management/api-app-keys/#add-an-api-key-or-client-token
```

> [5]: https://docs.yugabyte.com/preview/yugabyte-cloud/cloud-basics/create-clusters/create-clusters-free/

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[5]: https://docs.datadoghq.com/getting_started/site/
```

> [6]: https://docs.yugabyte.com/preview/yugabyte-cloud/cloud-monitor/metrics-export/#datadog

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[6]: https://github.com/DataDog/integrations-extras/blob/master/yugabytedb_managed/metadata.csv
```

> [7]: https://github.com/DataDog/integrations-extras/blob/master/yugabytedb_managed/metadata.csv

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[7]: https://support.yugabyte.com/
```

> [8]: https://support.yugabyte.com/

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

> [9]: https://yugabyte.com/

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```
